Software Requirements Specification
Company: Vocation Amid Automation
Created By: Nate Conrad

1. Introduction

1.1 Purpose

To create software that will enable users to design hierarchies of goals, visualize their worst and best selves, and track habits that contribute to either their best or worst selve's manifestation. 

1.2 Intended Audience

Adolescents (12+) and adults who want an easy system for embarking on and maintaining healthy personal growth. 

1.3 Intended Use

Users will envision and input their highest goals, deconstruct them into series of milestones, describe their best self and their worst self, enumerate the habits that will manifest their best and worst selves, and track their progress towards each milestone and away from their worst manifestation as a human being. 

1.4 Scope

Explain the scope of the software. What are the main goals and objectives?

Provide users with a comprehensive solution for personal growth planning and tracking.

Help users to cut through the noise and confusion of the self-help industry. 

Create strong incentive structures so that users can build momentum on smaller habits and easily transfer their willpower to tackling larger goals and more difficult habits. 

1.5 Definitions and Acronyms

DoBeDo: 
Know exactly what you need to Do
to become who you want to Be
to do what you want to Do

2. Overall Description
Describe what you are building and for who. 

This app will be a standalone PWA that will also be hosted on the VAA website for ease of use and dissemination.

2.1 User Needs
Explain why the user needs this software.

The self-help industry is so bloated and filled with profiteers that tremendous amounts of money can be spent entirely without the attendant improvement or personal growth an individual desires. Beyond that, an individual's personal growth journey can easily become so wayward, foggy, and unclear that progress stalls and frustration and perceived futility overwhelm the once hopeful evolver. 

This software will enable users to accurately chart their journey and understand how each action they take day-to-day brings them closer to, or farther from, their goals. 

Finally, because the process of self-help and personal growth can easily cause the individual to obsess over the future at the expense of the present and their chances of ever feeling whole, this app will continually reinforce the notion that the short term actions which an individual takes cause them to manifest in that very moment the kind of person whom they want to be. 

In this way, an individual can happily live in the present moment, appreciating the only realm of temporal existence available to them, while still knowing that their experiences in the present are leading them to a better place. 

2.2 Assumptions and Dependencies

What assumptions are you making that could cause an error? Is the project reliant on any other factors that could affect the development of the software?

User assumptions:


Technological assumptions:


3. System Features and Requirements

3.1 Functional Requirements
Define the functional requirements that are essential for the software.

The software must enable users to create and store life goals, subgoals/milestones, best self and worst self outcomes, and positive and negative habits along 6 core dimensions, with the ability for users to add additional dimensions as needed: health, knowledge, skills, relationships, spirit, purpose.

The user must be able to assign weight/value/importance to each of the goals and habits. 

Users must then be able to log which habits they complete each day, positive and negative, and based on the balance and how each habit is weighted, assign the day as a manifestation of the user's best or worst self.

Rewards for streaks and users' self-defined punishments must also be provided automatically. 

3.2 External Interface Requirements
Are there any UX and UI requirements that you must keep in mind as you build?

Simple visualizations of their avatars and the 6+ dimensions must be provided. These must be click/tappable and open the habits and goals associated with them. 

A "+" button log feature must be provided. After progress towards every positive and negative habit is logged, the avatar must change color to the best or worst self and play either triumphant or disappointing music. 

A streak tracker must reward them at set intervals and keep track of the long term balance of positive and negative habits. 

3.3 System Features
What features are required for the software to work?

A database to store user information and goal/habit tracking data. 

A sleek, simple user interface to reward and punish users, and give them a palpable sense of the meaning of their undertaking. 

3.4 Nonfunctional Requirements
Are there any non-functional requirements that you need to address (i.e. budget, team, etc.)

Budget is nonexistant. Human capital is limited to myself. Time allocation has this as a 1st priority until May. 

3.5 Technologies
HTML, CSS, Javascript, React, Express.js + Node.js, TypeScript 